OIDD 321 FINAL PROJECT- SOCCER INVESTMENT ANALYSIS 

By: Reeham Salah 
Introduction: 
Soccer is a heavily dynamic sport with 22 players on the field. With a playtime of two halves of 45 minutes plus stoppage time without formal interruptions, soccer contrasts greatly to baseball, basketball, and football. These characteristics make it difficult to assess objective qualities or plays that may increase the probability of a victory. Therefore, optimization problems on soccer teams are not as frequent as those found in other sports, such as in the baseball industry, as reported by Michael Lewis in the book Moneyball. Nevertheless, during the last century large financial investors have bought clubs in the European soccer leagues in order to generate a return based on the buying and selling of players. Therefore, a quantifiable model is needed for these investors in order to assess what particular players are expected to generate the highest possible return. This project seeks to build such a model based on three mathematical techniques; Monte-Carlo Simulation, regression analysis, and optimization. However, with the diffusion of financial investors throughout soccer clubs, we observe that a potential conflict might occur between the interests of the financial investors of the clubs and those of the manager of the club’s team. This conflict might emerge due to different objectives as financial investors aim to maximize expected return while a given manager aims to maximize the expected performance of his team. 

This code represents the investment approach and the different regression models that establish which teams investors should choose in order to gain the highest investment return. The FIFA dataset for both 2017 and 2018 was used to make such an analysis. 
